(theme music)
SUMMER TIME RENDERING
Are you okay?
Well, it doesn't hurt at all.
I found you.
Shiori's face changed.
She looked way different
when she grabbed me,
Huh?
SHINPEI: Guess I'm the only one
who saw it.
But I swear, it was definitely the girl
from the festival.
So what does this mean?
Didn't you lose some of your memories
fighting with Shiori's Shadow,
when you turned into a dark blob?
USHIOH: Yeah, but it didn't have time
to erase me and my memories completely.
So I restored my body
with the data that was left.
And then I came back,
so you would know the truth.
(thunder rumbling)
Oh.
SOU: Looks like it started to come down.
I told you we'd need umbrellas.
Right. Oh, wow. I guess you really did
go back in time, didn't you?
Okay, let's go to the old clinic.
SOU: Wait, you mean in this rain?
-(umbrella rustles)
-That place is in the mountains.
And it's going to be dark soon, you know.
And the problem is, well...
Ushio was there.
We gotta hurry up.
You don't have to come with.
Ushio knows the place.
Oh, man, you're a real piece of work.
SOU: Hey, dummy.
Of course, I'm coming with you, Shinpei.
(chuckles)
It's still raining really hard.
TOKIKO: Well, the festival's tomorrow,
I hope it clears up before then.
Mio, are you going?
MIO: I don't know.
I just have a lot going on right now.
Oh, of course, sorry.
Oh, no, it's okay.
Besides, I don't have a yukata, anyway.
Don't worry. That's no problem at all.
I have an extra one that you can borrow.
That's really nice, Tokiko.
MIO: But I really don't...
Mio, please, come on,
just go with me tomorrow!
Tokiko?
MIURA: Ahh! This rain!
I'm soaked to the bone. Oh, my god.
Oh, hey. Are you girls
from this island by chance?
Yeah, we are.
Wait a second, Mio.
TOKIKO: Who's asking, mister?
All right, sorry, sorry.
I'm Officer Miura,
with Wakayama North Police.
I'm looking for someone.
The name is Kobayakawa.
SOU: Hey, sorry I'm late.
Uh...
You know you look
kind of stupid, don't you?
SOU: Oh, come on! This is serious!
What about you?
Huh? I don't see any weapons!
-Are you gonna defend--
-USHIOH: Oh, it'll be fine.
Huh?
USHIOH: You got me after all.
SOU: Whoa! Didn't know
you were armed with Ushioh.
DANGER: KEEP OUT
So why were you trying
to search the old clinic?
Oh, I actually tried to sneak in
one summer back in the fourth grade.
SOU: Totsumura and his friends
invited me to go ghost hunting.
USHIOH: Oh, god. He's a cop, isn't he?
How did he not see the "Keep Out" sign?
You're one to talk.
SOU:
Yeah, but we couldn't even get in, though.
(tense music)
HISHIGATA: What are you doing here?
(all whimper)
SOU: My dad came out of nowhere.
My family actually owns the land,
so I didn't think
anything about it back then.
I figured he'd be around
once in a while, but it was so weird.
Why would he even wanna come
to this abandoned clinic?
SHINPEI: Best place to hide a leaf
is in the forest.
And if there isn't a forest, you grow one.
Right, but what would someone wanna hide
in such an abandoned clinic?
Ushioh, any shadows nearby?
USHIOH: Um-um-um...
SHINPEI: Ushioh's been able
to detect shadows
ever since she restored her memories.
Anything?
USHIOH: Well...
-(static)
-No, not right now.
Come on, seriously, Ushioh,
are just here to mess around or what?
And what are you doing in a swimsuit?
We didn't come here to take a dip!
Yeah? Well, we're not heading
to a baseball game, either!
SHINPEI: Let's calm down.
-Wait.
-And, yes,
this is what I wear when I fight!
Don't you dare underestimate me!
Ugh! She's terrifying!
The real Ushio wasn't like this!
-(Sou whimpers)
-(Ushioh sighs)
USHIOH: Go ahead, tell him, Shinpei.
Sou, if Ushioh starts
to wear real clothing,
they'll definitely hold back
her transformation.
Even if I was wearing armor or a helmet,
I'd still cast a shadow.
And if that gets hit, I die.
So a swimsuit really is
my best bet for fighting.
USHIOH: I can always transform
into whatever I copied at least once.
As long as I have the capacity,
I can expand my repertoire.
Cool, right?
Yeah, but also kinda distracting.
SHINPEI: Hey.
(approaching footsteps)
(floor creaking)
SHINPEI: Unbelievable.
It's like it was frozen in time.
Some of this stuff has historical value.
It was built over 100 years ago
during the Meiji period.
I think it was abandoned
some time back in the '60s.
SHINPEI: Does this place
have anything to do with shadows?
It looks like the stairs are no good.
Guess we can't check the second floor.
Think your powers
can get you up there, Ushioh?
Oh, uh, I...
(stammers)
Aw, is our little Ushioh scared?
Scared of what haunts this place?
Uh, uh... I...
I shouldn't have told you that.
Ah! Did it!
Whoa, nice.
Huh?
SOU: The shelf's full of drugs.
This is...
corrosive sublimate.
Corrosive what?
Mercury chloride, very toxic.
In fact, no one uses it anymore.
SOU: Can't believe this bottle
is just sitting here.
(gasps)
Old medical records and prescriptions.
SHINPEI: "Appendicitis.
Bronchitis. Pneumonia."
I don't see anything
about the shadow sickness.
SOU: Shi... Shinpei?
Huh? What is it?
Take a look.
What is that thing?
(eerie music)
Whatever it is, it's creepy.
SHINPEI: Some kind of wooden statue.
And a really old one.
Hang on. Looks like it's holding a fish.
A cod?
SOU: Wait a minute, isn't that a symbol
of the god of good luck or something?
You mean Ebisu?
Oh, yeah, him.
SHINPEI: He's the god of fishermen.
But isn't Ebisu supposed to be
a chubby old man?
This one looks more like a woman.
Weird. I don't remember
there being a female Ebisu. Oh!
What's up?
Oh, no way.
SHINPEI: It's Hiruko.
That's Hiruko? What's it doing here?
I don't know. It's just a guess.
SHINPEI: But if this is actually Hiruko...
Wait, what does Hiruko even look like?
I've never seen a picture.
"...deformities, a strange, lumpy body.
Kinda like a leech."
Seems like kind of a weird body type
for the god of good luck, doesn't it?
(grunts)
-(wind howling)
-Uh...
A recipe book.
I wonder if a family live upstairs?
-(dripping)
-(shrieks)
USHIOH: Huh?
These are old photos
of the Hishigata family.
-SHINPEI: Hey! Ushioh!
-Huh?
USHIOH: Hey, what's up?
Whoa! That's so creepy!
SHINPEI: Look at this.
USHIOH: Huh?
How was the second floor?
There's a lot of stuffs up there.
I can't go through it in one day.
SHINPEI: Here.
Any chance you can slip into this?
Oh, come on. Do I have to do everything?
You owe me some takoyaki tomorrow.
-SHINPEI: You got it, as much as you want.
-Huh?
You serious? I'm gonna own you to that!
You got a deal!
Okay. Anything?
USHIOH: Something's on the floor?
What the heck is this?
It's too dark to see.
Do you think you can flash right now?
You don't have to copy anything.
USHIOH: Oh, yeah, sure.
(zaps)
Oh! There's a keyhole.
USHIOH: I think the wall is a door.
All right. So come on back.
-(clanks)
-(grunting)
I guess we can't just break it down.
We're gonna need the key to get in.
Goddamn it. This is really suspicious.
Ugh, all this exploring
is making me hungry.
SOU: What? Is this thing serious?
-SHINPEI: Here.
-(gasps)
A rice ball? Is it for me?
-SHINPEI: Yeah, it's dinnertime.
-(chuckles)
Oh, come on, Shinpei.
(chomps)
-(Ushioh squeals)
-(Sou grumbles)
It's good.
(Ushioh chuckles)
Yeah, rice is definitely my favorite food.
Makes me so full.
SOU: Oh, my god.
-I can't believe you ate that much.
-USHIOH: Good stuff.
-(Ushioh sighs)
-(gasps)
-You said it was a woman, right?
-Huh?
Check this out.
Look at the statue's stomach.
It looks pregnant, doesn't it?
Yeah, I guess it does.
Maybe Hiruko was supposed to be
a god of fertility?
Hold on. Shadow scans
can penetrate things pretty deep.
USHIOH: That's how we're able
to copy things
like human bones and organs.
I see something in its stomach.
(both gasp)
I'm gonna copy it, okay?
SHINPEI: Using your hair?
(static)
What... What is that?
It's the key.
-(key clicks)
-(scraping)
SHINPEI: It's a secret door
that leads underground.
Be really careful, guys. I have a feeling
there're shadows down there.
My guess is only shadows
can open this door.
So why is it here, then? Was it my dad?
Ushioh.
If I'm with you,
you don't need to be scared. Let's go.
Hey, don't look up.
I heard they dug a lot
of underground tunnels
as a last line of defense during the war.
SHINPEI: Since the entrance was closed,
I guess no one's been here in decades.
Is this tunnel only for shadows?
You sense anything?
USHIOH: Over there.
(eerie music)
I'm getting a... a bad feeling.
All right, guys, listen.
SHINPEI: Ushioh, if things go south,
or we get into trouble,
just protect yourself and get out.
And, Sou, do everything you can
to save her. Got it?
(gasps)
Hey, you saw my powers, didn't you?
I'm not the one who needs protection.
Ushioh, if I die today,
I'll just loop back.
But what happens if you die first?
SHINPEI: Do you think
you're gonna loop back, too?
Uh...
SHINPEI: Think about it for a minute.
I might not see you
until the fireworks on the 24th.
And that's not even
the worst-case scenario.
USHIOH: What are you talking about?
SHINPEI: If you die first,
I might never see you again.
The point is,
we can't replace your powers.
We can't afford to lose them.
Okay, wait a minute, Shinpei.
What exactly are you trying to say?
I'm just trying
to be realistic, that's all.
SHINPEI: Besides, I made a promise.
I have to follow through on that.
-Hm? What promise?
-Huh?
SHINPEI: This time, I'll protect you.
Shinpei. You don't have to.
I don't really get what's going on,
but I swear I'm not going to let you die.
Will you let us protect you, Ushioh?
Hmm... Right, yeah.
I don't care. Whatever.
(water trickling)
(gasps)
SHINPEI: A black stain,
shaped like a person.
It's old. Someone was copied
and then erased by a shadow here.
-(mouse squeals)
-(gasps)
SOU: Oh, it's just a mouse.
That scared me.
-USHIOH: In there.
-SOU: Oh, man.
I sense a shadow somewhere over there.
Right where the mouse went.
You think it's us?
I don't know.
I'll go check, just wait here.
-Hey, I told you. I'll go.
-Huh?
Be careful.
SHINPEI: It takes three shots.
Three shots is all I need.
That'll paralyze it.
-(zaps)
-(gasps)
(squeaking)
(panting)
SOU: You see it?
SHINPEI: Yeah, right over there.
It looks like it's eating it.
Hey, Ushioh, so if you can sense shadows
wherever you are,
do you think they might be able
to sense you as well?
USHIOH: I'm not really sure.
SHINPEI:
We don't have time to think about it.
We need to act right now.
We're going to attack first.
SHINPEI: I'll do my best
to paralyze it right away.
Then Ushioh will actually kill it.
Sou will be there as backup.
(suspenseful music)
SHINPEI: Nothing yet.
(squeaking)
(panting)
I'm pretty sure it hasn't noticed us yet.
It isn't hiding its shadow at all.
SHINPEI: Perfect.
That means a bigger target.
Only five or six more steps.
(gasps)
(sniffing)
SHINPEI: Not good. It can smell us.
(grumbling)
(yelping)
SHINPEI: It's just hid in its shadow.
It's just like hitting a fastball
from a home plate!
(Sou grunts)
(gasps)
Heck, yeah! Got a clean hit!
(suspenseful music)
(shadow baby groaning)
Oh, no!
Stay back, Ushioh!
We can take care of this!
-(Sou grunts)
-SHINPEI: Oh, crap! It's gonna kill Sou!
-(yells)
-(gasps)
Calm down. Just breathe.
Just breathe. Do it. It's now or never.
(Sou groaning)
Your hands are shaking. Easy.
You'll never be able to hit it like that.
Relax and stay focused.
SHINPEI: Just remember,
you've been doing this since...
since Mom and Dad passed away.
-SHINPEI: I learned how to...
-(Sou groaning)
...to step back
and distance myself from it.
Look.
-(grumbling)
-(groaning)
(whimpering)
(yells)
Ushioh!
I got it!
(yelps)
We... We did it.
SOU: Shinpei! We killed it!
-(Sou snickers)
-Yeah.
BOTH: Nice!
Sorry for shooting at you.
(chuckles)
No. Don't worry about it,
it turned out okay.
You were really calm!
Well, I did get worried
when you missed that first shot.
Well, I knew you'd hit it.
You weren't gonna miss.
I mean, come on,
you were up all night practicing.
SHINPEI: Wait, seriously?
You were awake for that?
She gotta be kidding me. Oh, god.
(chuckles)
(Ushioh grunts)
-(static)
-SHINPEI: What's wrong?
We can't let our guards down yet.
The first shadow I sensed
is still down here.
I don't feel good about this.
It sounds a harsh engraving,
like nails on a chalkboard.
Can you tell where it's coming from?
-That way.
-Huh?
USHIOH: I think it's to the left
of that corner.
-SHINPEI: Okay.
-SOU: Wait, Shinpei!
God, look at him.
He just went right in there.
That's 'cause he's seen it.
USHIOH: He's already seen what will happen
if we don't do anything.
You want to protect Mio, is that right?
Of course, I do. I'd give my life for her!
Then there's no time to be scared.
-(groans)
-So get going, okay?
(gasps)
USHIOH: It's the wound from Mio's shadow.
When I got my powers back,
I constructed the arm from Ushio's data.
Is it fake or something?
I still haven't recovered
from the damage my body took.
(groans)
Go away!
Hey, Shinpei.
I've been wondering about something.
Why can't Ushioh just copy the nail gun?
If she pulled it off,
then we'd have two guns.
We tried that already,
she did copy the gun.
SHINPEI: But it wouldn't shoot.
If the original machine still exist,
copies of it are like
non-functional replicas.
SHINPEI: If you want the copy to work,
you have to erase the original first.
ORIGINAL, COPY (UNUSABLE)
(USABLE)
So basically, we can't use both.
SHINPEI: If we just needed the shape,
like with the key, it wouldn't matter.
But if it uses energy at all,
where if it requires some kind
of power source,
the original has to be erased.
Okay, how about that nail gun?
This? This one right here is a copy.
They can be really super useful, actually.
SHINPEI: And Ushioh was a big help.
She can restore the nails or canisters.
All she has to do
was reprint the original data.
(gunshot)
What was that?
A gunshot.
SOU: Shinpei.
(gasps)
(tense music)
This place feels way different,
doesn't it?
It's a natural cave.
SHINPEI: Why do I smell salt water?
Is the ocean nearby?
Huh? What the... Are they...
There's no way.
Huh?
I'm sensing shadows all over the place.
We're surrounded! Come on!
(tense music)
(shadow babies cooing)
SHINPEI: How many are there?
Run, Ushioh!
Run!
(closing theme music)